In a prosperous city of Arabia there lived two brothers; the elder one named Casim was a rich merchant and he led a luxurious life in his bungalow. But the younger one named Alibaba was a poor wood cutter, he used to work hard from dawn to dusk for his living. One day while cutting wood in the forest Alibaba heard clip-clop sound of horses and saw a heap of dust rising from the middle of the forest. He saw 40 thieves riding on the horses; they had sharp swords and knives with them and had sacks of gold. They reached near a cave and the chief of the thieves went to the front of the cave and said "open sesame open." As soon as he said so, the door of the cave opened itself with a creaking sound; thieves went inside the cave and after some time they came back with empty hands. Alibaba was watching all this by hiding behind a bush; he wondered what was inside the cave and why the thieves went inside it. As soon as the thieves went away Alibaba went near the cave and said "Open sesame open." The door of the cave opened and Alibaba went inside; there he shouted with excitement, for the cave was filled with gold stolen by the thieves. He filled his pocket and a sack with gold and walked outside the cave and said "Close sesame close." The door was closed; then he took the gold to his home and showed his wife. As she saw the gold she stood still for a moment with surprise. Alibaba explained to his wife how he found it. Alibaba and his wife then started to count the coins but they couldn't finish counting all the coins, so they decided to measure it with a balance. She went to Casim's bungalow and borrowed a balance. Casim's wife was eager to know why Alibaba's wife needed a balance, so she put some glue under the balance to find out what they were measuring.
While Alibaba's wife was measuring the gold coins in the balance, one gold coin stuck on the glue. When the balance was returned, Casim's wife saw the gold on the balance; she was shocked. She went to Casim and said, "People count money but your brother measures money in a balance." Casim was surprised to hear that his poor brother was measuring gold in a balance and he decided to go to Alibaba's house and check out whether his wife was telling the truth. Casim went to Alibaba's house and said, "Dear brother, last night our parents appeared in my dream; they were disappointed with me for not helping you in your hardships and that vision made me realize my mistakes. I have decided to help not only you but all other poor people; forgive me for my inappropriate behaviour towards you for the past years." Alibaba replied, "Brother, I am so happy to see this sudden change in you, but now I don't need your help; I have enough money by God's grace." Casim asked eagerly, "From where did you get enough money, suddenly? If I knew the source I would have distributed some money among the poor." Alibaba replied, "That's so nice of you." Then he told the whole story of the secret cave to Casim.
Casim said, "God has indeed blessed you by showing you that cave; let me go back, my wife would be waiting for me." Then he went home and took many sacks and a few donkeys with him and left for the forest to collect the gold from the cave. He reached in front of the cave and said as Alibaba had told him, "Open sesame open." The cave opened; Casim went inside and started to collect the gold coins. Unfortunately at that time the thieves arrived; they saw the donkeys in front of the cave, went inside, and saw Casim collecting their gold. They became very angry and killed Casim with their swords. As Casim didn't come back home for several days Alibaba went in search of him; he reached the cave and searched inside and found Casim's dead body on the pile of gold. He went back home with Casim's body and buried it with religious customs.
After some days the thieves came back to the cave and noticed that Casim's dead body was missing. They guessed that someone else had come to the cave and taken the body, which meant someone else also knew about the secret cave. The head of the thieves told his gang members, "We have to find the person who has explored our secret and we should kill him before he informs others." His gang members agreed. All the thieves went to different parts of the city and asked everyone if any death had taken place in the past week at any of the houses. A flower seller said that Alibaba's brother Casim had died in the past week and that she was the one who had brought flowers for the funeral ceremony. The thieves asked her to show them Alibaba's house; when she did, they put a mark on the front door of the house. The next day the head of the thief went to Alibaba's house with 40 oil pots. He knocked at Alibaba's door and asked him, "I am an oil merchant; I'm coming from a long distance, night has fallen and I can't travel anymore. I have heard that many thefts take place in this city; can I stay at your house tonight?" Kind Alibaba agreed. At night Alibaba's wife was preparing food for Alibaba and the oil merchant but the cooking oil was finished. So she thought she would take some from the merchant's oil pot. She took a bowl and went near the oil pots. But as she checked there was no oil in any of the pots; instead people were hiding inside each of the pots and they had sharp swords with them.
On hearing the footsteps of Alibaba's wife a person inside one pot asked, "Head, can we come out? Is it the right time to kill Alibaba?" Alibaba's intelligent wife sensed danger and guessed that it must be the 40 thieves in 40 pots and the merchant must be the head of the thieves; they might be searching for the person who had taken their gold from the cave. She was scared at first, but then she gathered courage and went inside and brought some cinder and put it inside each of the pots; all the thieves died by burning. The next day she trickily invited the head of the thief to watch a dance performance of hers during the meal. He agreed. During the dance performance she took a knife and went near the thief and stabbed him. Alibaba was shocked by his wife's act and asked her why she had done so. She showed him the people with swords inside the pots and explained the whole story, and said that the oil merchant was actually the thief who had come to kill Alibaba with his gang members. Alibaba praised his wife's intelligence and thanked her for saving his life.