Once upon a time in a peaceful and prosperous kingdom there lived a widowed gentleman; he had a little daughter named Cinderella. He gave his beloved daughter all the love and comfort he could but he still thought that she needed a mother's care. So he married once again, a woman of a good family, and she had two daughters just Cinderella's age. After a few years Cinderella's father died due to illness. After his death Cinderella's stepmother's true nature was revealed; she was cruel and bitterly jealous of Cinderella's charm and beauty. She distributed the family fortune among her two daughters. At the same time Cinderella was abused and humiliated and they made her a servant in her own home. Even in this situation Cinderella remained kind and gentle.
Cinderella was very kind to animals and birds; she used to feed them and take care of them. Cinderella's busy day would start with feeding the stepmother's cat Lucifer; she fed him first, so that he wouldn't eat rats in the house. While Cinderella's stepmother set traps for rats in the house Cinderella used to rescue them. Animals and birds loved Cinderella and they used to help her all the time. Birds would tie her hair, rats would decorate her dress and polish her shoes. Every morning Cinderella's stepmother and stepsisters would start to shout, "Cinderella, where is my breakfast? Bring me the coffee. Is the laundry all cleaned? Clean the staircase, clean the kitchen and windows again." Poor Cinderella would start to run here and there and would do all the work alone.
Far away from Cinderella's home, in the palace of the kingdom, the king was looking for an eligible bride for his son. He ordered all the eligible girls to arrive at the palace, so that the prince would select one of them as his bride. The message reached Cinderella's home too. Cinderella's stepsisters were very excited to go to the palace and meet the prince. On hearing the message Cinderella also asked her stepmother's permission to go to the palace. The stepmother said, "If you could complete all the household work by evening you can come with us." Then the wicked woman would give her lots and lots of jobs to do so she wouldn't finish all the work by evening.
Cinderella didn't get enough time to get her dress ready which she wanted to wear while going to the palace; at that time animals and birds helped her. They prepared the dress for Cinderella. Rats stitched the dress, birds brought beads and ribbons to decorate it, and Cinderella got ready to go to the palace. She looked so beautiful in the dress; on seeing Cinderella her stepsisters became so jealous that they tore her dress with anger.
Poor Cinderella ran away into the woods and started to cry. While she was crying she saw a light and behind that light a fairy appeared. The fairy asked Cinderella to stop crying and wiped her tears. With a magic wand the fairy changed a pumpkin into a cart and rats into horses to pull the cart; then she changed Cinderella's torn dress into a beautiful gown and gave her a pair of glass slippers. After that the fairy asked Cinderella to go to the palace and meet the prince; then she also warned Cinderella, "Dear child, you should come back before midnight because by midnight the spell will be broken and everything will be as it was before." Cinderella agreed by nodding her head.
At the palace the king was selecting a bride for his son but from the thousands of ladies who had arrived at the palace the prince didn't even like one. Cinderella's stepsisters also came to meet the prince but got rejected. At that time Cinderella entered the palace; everyone was staring at her beauty. The prince liked Cinderella and asked her to dance with him. They danced till midnight; suddenly the clock struck twelve and Cinderella remembered what the fairy had told her about the spell. So she ran out of the palace before the spell would break and everything would turn back as it was before. The prince tried to stop Cinderella but he couldn't. She hurried into the cart but dropped one of her glass slippers. The prince saw the glass slipper which she had dropped and picked it up. By the time Cinderella reached home the spell was broken and everything had transformed back into itself: the cart into a pumpkin and the horses into rats.
The next day the prince ordered his army to find the girl who had danced with him the previous night. He ordered his men to bring the girl whose feet perfectly fit the glass slipper which he had with him. Everyone in the country came to know about the prince's order. Cinderella's stepmother had her doubts and checked Cinderella's room; she found the other glass slipper in Cinderella's room and realised with jealousy that Cinderella was the girl for whom the prince was searching. The jealous woman locked Cinderella in a room upstairs.
The king's army was searching each and every home in the country; they tried the glass slipper on each and every girl in the country, but none of their feet fit into the glass slipper. At last they arrived at Cinderella's home. The army man tried the glass slipper on Cinderella's stepsisters but became disappointed as their feet didn't fit in the slippers either. He asked Cinderella's stepmother, "Are there any other girls left in the house?" She said, "No one else is in the house."
Poor Cinderella was crying in the room; at that time birds took the key and gave it to Cinderella. Cinderella opened the door and came out to try the slippers. At that time her wicked stepmother trickily broke the slippers which were in the army man's hand; the wicked woman thought that now they would not be able to try the slippers on Cinderella and would not be able to recognise the slipper's owner. But Cinderella took the other pair of slippers which she had with her. The army man happily realised that Cinderella was the girl for whom they had been searching the whole day. They brought her to the palace and the prince married the beautiful Cinderella; both of them lived happily ever after.