In a prosperous and peaceful kingdom, there lived a king and a queen. The queen was very kind and generous. One day the queen gave birth to a beautiful, adorable baby girl. All citizens of the country celebrated the little princess's birthday by lighting lanterns and setting off fireworks. But one day the little princess fell ill and the king became so worried that he asked the royal advisor what the cure was for the princess's illness. He told the king to give her the fruit of the magic plant and she would recover from her illness.
The king's army went to the forest and they plucked the fruit of the beautiful golden magic plant. They served the juice of the fruit to the princess. The princess suddenly recovered from her illness and the magic fruit changed her hair colour into gold and her hair gained magical power. News spread all over the country that the princess's hair had turned golden and had magical powers. A witch who was living in the dark forest overheard the news and decided to steal the baby princess. One night when everyone in the palace was sleeping, she stole the baby and brought her into a tower. The tower had no doors or passages; it only had a window at the top. The princess grew up in the tower with the witch.
The witch used Rapunzel's long hair to go in and out of the tower. When the witch came back she would say loudly, "Rapunzel, let your hair down," and the witch would climb up using Rapunzel's hair. One day on her birthday Rapunzel saw glowing lanterns through the window in the sky; they were so beautiful she wanted to go out and see them up close. Rapunzel asked the witch to let her go out but the witch refused to let her go. One day a farmer was walking near the tower and he saw the witch climbing the tower by a long golden hair. He waited behind a bush and when the witch went away from the tower he entered the tower. Rapunzel was scared to see a stranger in the tower; she asked him, "Who are you?" He replied that the king had announced that he would give 10,000 gold coins to the person who found the lost princess. "I'm searching for the lost princess." Rapunzel asked him, "Mr., can you do me a favour? I want to see the glowing lanterns. Could you help me to escape from the tower to see them?"
He said, "OK, I will come here when the lanterns are lit next time, but I have to go now." And he went away from the tower. But he forgot to take a sickle which he had brought with him. The witch came back in the evening; she saw a sickle on the window and understood that someone else had come to the tower. After some days the farmer came back and said, "Rapunzel, let your hair down; we will go and see the lanterns today. I will help you escape from the tower." Unfortunately the witch was in the tower and she heard it; she became very angry, took the sickle, and let Rapunzel's hair down. When the farmer entered the tower the witch tried to kill him; the farmer pushed the witch and she fell down from the tower.
The farmer then rescued the princess and took her to the glowing lanterns. While they were watching the beautiful lanterns the king and queen passed by and the queen saw Rapunzel and recognised her dear daughter at first sight. The queen hugged Rapunzel and brought her to the palace. The king gave a lot of gold coins to the farmer. Then they lived happily ever after.