Once upon a time there lived a wicked queen who was an expert in witchcraft and black magic. The wicked woman had a magic mirror which would answer all her questions. One day she asked the mirror, "Mirror, mirror on the wall, who is the fairest one of all?" The mirror answered, "A maid I see, lips red as rose, hair smooth as silk, skin white as snow; a girl called Snow White." Snow White was the queen's stepdaughter; the queen became jealous of her beauty. She dressed the little princess in rags and made her do all the work of the palace—cleaning, gardening, and so on. One day Snow White was singing; a prince who was passing nearby heard her sweet voice. He saw beautiful Snow White, fell for her, and proposed to her. The queen saw this through the window; her jealousy and anger turned into rage as if fuel was poured into fire. She decided to kill Snow White. She called a soldier and said, "Take Snow White to a vacant place and kill her. Bring me her heart after killing her so I can be sure that she is dead." He replied, "But Majesty, the little princess...." She interrupted, "You know the penalty if you disobey my command." Fearing the queen's anger he agreed to kill her.
Snow White was in the garden plucking flowers; the soldier went near her and raised his sword to kill her, but his hand shivered. He couldn't kill the sweet little princess, yet he was scared to disobey the queen's command. So he asked Snow White, "Go to the forest and never come back, otherwise the queen will kill you with no mercy." He went to the queen with a pig's heart.
Snow White ran into the forest; she searched for a place where she could stay. While wandering she saw a small house. She knocked on the door and no one replied, so she went inside. Inside the house she saw seven little chairs and plates, a pile of dirty dishes and clothes, dirt and spiderwebs all around. She saw a staircase and went upstairs; there she saw seven little beds and one name was written on each of them. She thought that the house had no owner, so she cleaned the whole house and prepared soup. After doing all the work she became tired; she fell into the bed and slept.
The seven dwarfs were the owners of the house; they were diamond miners. After work they returned to their home. When they reached home they saw the doors of the house were open and candles were lit; they understood someone was inside the house. Inside the house they saw soup boiling in the kitchen. They went upstairs and saw someone sleeping in their bed. They went near the bed and saw a girl as white as snow with shiny hair.
They woke her up; she woke up. The dwarfs said, "Who are you?" Snow White replied, "Oh, I am Princess Snow White. I ran away from the palace because my stepmother tried to kill me. I will clean the house and make cake and soup for you. Can I stay here?" "OK, you can stay with us," they said. Each of them introduced themselves to her; then they drank the soup together. Far away from the house of the dwarfs, in the palace, the queen went in front of the mirror and asked, "Mirror, mirror on the wall, now who is the fairest one of all?" The mirror replied, "Snow White." "But Snow White is dead and her heart is in my hands." The mirror said, "It's the heart of a pig which you are holding in your hand. Snow White is safe in the forest surrounded by seven dwarfs." The queen realised that the soldier had betrayed her, so she decided, "I will kill her myself with magical powers." She referred to the spell book for a magic which would change her into an old woman; she prepared a magic liquid and drank it. Then she searched the spell book to prepare poison to kill the princess. In the spell book it was written........
She took an apple and dipped it into the poison. The apple turned black first, then into deep red. The cure for the poisonous apple was also written in the spell book........ The queen went to the forest in the appearance of an old lady with a poisonous apple. She said to Snow White that she was an apple seller and gave the apple to Snow White. As soon as Snow White took a bite of the apple she fell down. The dwarfs saw this and came running; on seeing the dwarfs the witch ran and reached a hilltop. At the hilltop she slipped and fell down. The dwarfs went to Snow White; she was dead. They sat near her body and wept for a long time; then they placed her body in a golden coffin.
The prince heard about the girl in the golden coffin; he went to the forest, recognised Snow White, kissed her, and sat near her coffin weeping. The spell of the poisonous apple was broken with the prince's kiss and Snow White woke up. Everyone became very happy; the dwarfs started to dance and sing. The prince married Snow White and they lived happily ever after.